We live in a time of judgment.
We’re not talking
about flawed human judgment.
We’re talking about the perfect judgment
that comes from the heavenly Kingdom
in Jesus’ hands.
Jesus spoke of this judgment
in his great prophecy
about the “last days” found
in Matthew chapters 24 and 25.
After outlining what we could expect to see,
he provided three parables
that deal with final judgment.
In Matthew chapter 25,
the first two parables
relate to the final sealing
of genuine anointed ones.
These parables will be fulfilled
not long before the great tribulation begins.
Next, in the third parable,
Jesus gives attention to the rest of mankind.
Let’s read the opening four verses
of what he said starting in verse 31:
“When the Son of man comes in his glory,
and all the angels with him,
“then he will sit down
on his glorious throne.
“All the nations will be gathered before him,
“and he will separate people
one from another,
“just as a shepherd separates
the sheep from the goats.
“And he will put the sheep on his right hand,
“but the goats on his left.
“Then the King will say
to those on his right:
“‘Come, you who have been blessed
by my Father,
“‘inherit the Kingdom prepared for you
from the founding of the world.’”
“Inherit the Kingdom,”
in other words, Paradise,
the earthly realm of the Kingdom.
When is this fulfilled?
After Jesus comes in his glory, he said,
and judges those then living.
Jesus said that this judgment would result
in a figurative separating of people
to his right hand and to his left hand,
like separating sheep from goats.
Jesus calls those
at his right hand “righteous.”
However, he calls those
separated to his left hand “cursed,”
and he sends them off
into everlasting destruction.
Since the first two parables
involve judgment that takes place
before the great tribulation,
what about this third parable?
When does Jesus start
to identify the righteous sheep
and the cursed goats?
Back in 1995,
The Watchtower  helped us to understand
that the final judgment of the sheep
and the goats will be decided
when Jesus comes in his glory
during the great tribulation.
Does this mean that the judgment process
does not start until then?
The answer is no.
Why can we say this?
Well, let’s illustrate the point.
Think about judgments
delivered by a Supreme Court.
When the day arrives
for a judgment to be announced,
does this mean that only then the court
starts to consider the evidence at hand?
No.
By that time,
the court has already read briefs,
they have prepared and heard oral arguments,
and then they consider
the legal background to the case.
This may take considerable time.
No court opinion is considered final
until it is delivered in open court
or released to the public.
What is the point?
Well, if the Supreme Courts
of human governments
take time to hear all the facts
and to weigh all the circumstances,
should we be surprised that Jesus
is wisely using his time now
to judge people fairly?
By the start of the great tribulation,
Jesus will know who
is goatlike and who is sheeplike.
How so?
Well, consider this:
To a degree, even we can see
where people are choosing to stand.
True, the Bible foretold
that this would be the case
in Malachi chapter 3.
There we find prophetic words
that point ahead
to events in the first century
and in modern times.
Then verse 18 says that we would
“see the distinction between
a righteous person and a wicked person,
“between one serving God
and one not serving him.”
If we can see the distinction,
then we can be certain
that Jesus is far ahead of us.
What does Jesus see?
Well, we can be sure
that he’s carefully watching
the attitudes, actions,
and speech of each person.
For example, he sees
their response to the good news.
Also, Jesus is observing
whether individuals support
his anointed brothers
who will serve with him in the Kingdom.
At Matthew 25:35-40,
Jesus said that his brothers
would experience many trials.
And he explained that those
whom he judges as sheep
are the ones who assist his brothers.
He also said that he views
what is done to them
as being done to him.
While Christ’s brothers will undoubtedly face
trials during the great tribulation,
how are they helped now?
Doing good to Christ’s brothers now
includes working
along with them as they strive
to complete the preaching
of the good news of the Kingdom.
Jesus takes note of this.
What else does Jesus observe?
At Matthew 12:36, 37,
Jesus stated that a person’s words
would also be a basis
for how he or she is judged.
Let’s look at what Jesus said
at Matthew 12:36, 37.
Jesus said: “I tell you that men will render
an account on Judgment Day
“for every unprofitable saying
that they speak;
“for by your words
you will be declared righteous,
and by your words you will be condemned.”
So then, does Jesus hear what we say?
Yes, he does,
including what we have said
in preaching the good news.
Now, by using the words “render an account,”
here Jesus was referring
to what a person has said in the past.
That thought is reinforced
by the use of the past tense
at Matthew 25:34-40 for the sheep
and 41-45 for the goats.
For example, in verse 40,
Jesus says to the sheeplike ones:
“To the extent that you did it [past tense]
“to one of the least of these my brothers,
you did it to me.”
What does this tell us?
It tells us that everyone who desires
to be viewed as a righteous sheep
must build up a good record
of support for Christ’s brothers—now!
A person must be sheeplike
when entering the great tribulation,
and they must remain sheeplike
to the very end.
By the time
“the Son of man comes in his glory,”
it will be far too late to build up
such a good record with him.
Jesus is like the king mentioned
at Proverbs 20:8.
There it says:
“When the king sits on the throne to judge,
he sifts out all evil with his eyes.”
In line with this, we can be certain
that Jesus, our heavenly King,
is already sifting and taking note
of who are goatlike
in their attitudes, actions, and speech.
For those who continue refusing
to serve Jehovah and his Kingdom,
their judgment will be in place
as the great tribulation begins.
We can say this
because there are no Scriptural indications
of any conversions to pure worship
during the great tribulation.
Instead, we read at Revelation 6:16, 17
that those who chose
not to obey the good news
will at that time turn to man-made things
to try to save them.
They will run to things that they view
as mountainlike, or strong,
such as their political
and commercial systems.
Revelation 6:16 tells us
that they will cry out to such things saying:
“Fall over us and hide us from the face
“of the One seated on the throne
and from the wrath of the Lamb.”
But these human institutions
will have no power to save them.
What will this mean for such ones?
Many goatlike ones will perish
early in the great tribulation
when the governments of this world
turn on and destroy false religion.
Many more will perish
at the hands of other goatlike people.
Ezekiel 38:21 prophetically states
that “every man’s sword
will be against his own brother.”
Finally, all remaining goatlike ones
will perish by means
of the angelic forces at Armageddon.
But as for the sheeplike ones,
the Fine Shepherd, Jesus,
will know each one of them
before the start of the great tribulation,
and he will observe their loyalty to Jehovah
throughout the great tribulation.
Then, just before Armageddon begins,
Jesus will, in effect, sit down
as judge to make the final distinction
between the sheep and the goats
out of all people then living.
Notably, in this third parable,
Jesus said that those
who were at that time judged as goats
will call him Lord.
But Jesus will make it clear
that they did not support his brothers.
So, then, any persons who were once sheeplike
but who failed to endure to the end
by courageously supporting Christ’s brothers
will be placed among the goats.
Referring to Jesus as Lord
will not save them.
It will be too late to do good
for Christ’s brothers
who will likely be with Jesus
in the heavenly Kingdom by that time.
Of course, the goats
will also include those enemies of God
who are still alive out of all the nations.
This final judging serves
an important purpose.
What is it?
It will leave no doubt
in the eyes of all then living
as to who Jesus’ righteous sheep are
as they prepare to enter the new world.
So, then, strive to keep standing
among the righteous
who will be placed at Jesus’ right hand.
God’s Word promises that as long
as sheeplike ones remain loyal to Him
and to his appointed King, Jesus,
they will be guided into everlasting life.
Such ones must display courage
by supporting the work of Christ’s brothers,
both now and during the great tribulation.
What kind of courage will be needed?
Courage like that of Onesiphorus.
The apostle Paul mentions
this faithful Christian
at 2 Timothy 1:16-18.
We invite you to read
what he said about him,
starting in verse 16:
“May the Lord grant mercy
to the household of Onesiphorus,
“for he often refreshed me,
“and he did not become ashamed
of my prison chains.
“On the contrary, when he was in Rome,
“he diligently looked for me and found me.
“May the Lord grant him to find mercy
from Jehovah in that day.”
Onesiphorus would have been
an anointed Christian,
but his example is one
for every Christian to imitate.
Just visiting Paul
could have cost Onesiphorus
his freedom or his life.
But that did not stop him from finding Paul
and refreshing him, did it?
Qualities such as Onesiphoruslike courage
will be required of all sheeplike ones
during the great tribulation.
So in summary, Jesus is now observing
the actions, attitudes,
and speech of all people.
As a thorough Judge,
he will have identified
sheeplike ones and goatlike ones
by the start of the great tribulation.
Then, according to Jesus’ parable,
just before Armageddon begins,
Jesus will pass final judgment
on all then living on earth,
giving attention to why the righteous sheep
are placed at his right hand.
Will you be found standing
among the righteous?
To receive that blessing,
don’t be swayed by the things
you see taking place
around you in this world.
Don’t be swayed by popular protests.
Remain neutral—no part of it.
Don’t be swayed by political promises.
Don’t be swayed as governments say,
“Peace and security!”
Remain neutral—no part of it.
But when it comes to obeying God’s laws,
stand firmly on the side of the Kingdom.
Only those who remain no part of the world
will be viewed by Jesus as being sheeplike
when the great tribulation begins
and when it wraps up at Armageddon.
And only those who continue
to support Jesus’ brothers
will be placed at Jesus’ right hand
when he makes the final judgment
of the righteous sheep and the cursed goats.
Show where you desire to stand
in all that you say and do right now.
And during the time yet remaining,
get ready to use
our new publication Enjoy Life Forever!
and help many more take a righteous stand
before the end comes.